---
layout: post
title: "How To Add 2FA to your Account"
category: Account
tags: Security
permalink: falix/account/security/add-2fa
description: "Learn how to protect your account with 2 Factor Authentication."
keywords:
    - keyword: 2fa
      matches: ["add", "enable", "disable", "backup", "code", "remove"]
    - keyword: two factor
      matches: ["authentication", "enable", "disable"]
    - keyword: backup
      matches: ["code", "recovery", "lost"]
author: Metr
---

## Introduction

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) adds an extra layer of security to your Falix account by requiring not only your password or login via an external account (like Google or Discord), but also a second form of authentication. This guide will walk you through the steps to enable 2FA on your account.

## Why Use 2FA?

2FA significantly enhances the security of your account by making it much harder for unauthorized users to gain access. Even if someone manages to obtain your password, they would still need the second factor to log in.

## Steps to Enable 2FA

1. Navigate to the [Profile Settings page](https://client.falixnodes.net/profile/settings).
2. Find the "Activate 2FA" option.
3. You will be shown a QR code and a secret. If you can't add the 2FA entry using the QR code, you can use the secret given to you.

To add a 2FA entry, you will need an authenticator app. Below are 3 recommended authenticator apps:

{% tabs Authenticators %}
{% tab Authenticators Ente Auth %}

- Mobile: Click the plus icon in the bottom right corner. If you scan the QR code, Ente Auth will fill in the information. If you add the entry using a secret, you will have to enter the information manually.
- Desktop: Click the plus icon in the bottom right corner. Enter the Issuer (the website or the business), Secret (the code) and Account Name.

{% endtab %}
{% tab Authenticators Google Authenticator %}

1. Click the plus icon in the bottom right corner.
2. Scan the QR code or add your entry using a secret. When adding using a secret, enter the name for your entry, enter your secret and then select the type of the key.

{% endtab %}
{% tab Authenticators Microsoft Authenticator %}

1. Click the QR code icon in the bottom right corner.
2. You will be prompted to scan the QR code. You may choose to add your entry using a secret instead by pressing the "Enter code manually" button, selecting what type of account you want to use, entering the account name and your secret.

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

4. Enter the 6-digit code from your authenticator app to verify setup.
5. After verification, you will be shown a **backup code**. Save this immediately.

## Backup Codes

After enabling 2FA, you are given a backup code in the format `XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX`. This is a one-time use code that lets you log in if you lose access to your authenticator app.

{: .warning}
> Save your backup code in a secure location immediately. Without your authenticator app or backup code, you will not be able to access your account.

### Viewing or Regenerating Your Backup Code

1. Navigate to [Profile Settings](https://client.falixnodes.net/profile/settings).
2. Find the **Backup Code** card.
3. Click **Generate** (if you don't have one) or **Regenerate** (to replace your current code).
4. Enter your 6-digit 2FA code to confirm.
5. Your new backup code will be displayed. Copy it and store it securely.

{: .warning}
> Regenerating a backup code invalidates your previous one. Only your most recent backup code will work.

## Disabling 2FA

1. Navigate to [Profile Settings](https://client.falixnodes.net/profile/settings).
2. Find the **2FA Enabled** card and click the **Disable** button.
3. Enter your 6-digit 2FA code to confirm.
4. 2FA will be removed from your account.

{: .info}
> Backup codes cannot be used to disable 2FA. You must use a code from your authenticator app.
