---
title: Add Custom Server Software or Version To Your Minecraft Java Server
tags: General
description: Find out how to use a custom or modified software or version not available in the versions list.
keywords:
    - keyword: custom
      matches: ["software", "jar", "core"]
permalink: /minecraft/java/general/custom-software
author: Mocab
---

Before proceeding with this guide, we recommend reading our [server software guide](/minecraft/java/general/server-software) to better understand the terms used below.

Often a user will want to use a specific version or software, either because of a modpack requirement or for specific features. Fortunately, this can be easily done with a custom jar. Custom jars come in two forms: a standalone `.jar` file, or a `.jar` file, a library folder and sometimes other files.

## Preparing the Jar or Library:

Standalone jars are often downloaded directly, while jar with a library folder are generated from an installer, both of which can be downloaded from the provider's website. A list of the most common software and their download website is as follows:

{: .warning }

> **NEVER** download shady or untrusted server software, or software from unofficial websites. Malicious developers can use them to easily gain backdoor access to your server and wreak havoc.

-   [Paper, Folia, Velocity, Waterfall](https://papermc.io/downloads)
-   [Purpur](https://purpurmc.org/downloads)
-   [Spigot](https://getbukkit.org/download/spigot/)
-   [Fabric](https://fabricmc.net/use/server/)
-   [Quilt](https://quiltmc.org/en/install/server/)
-   [NeoForge](https://projects.neoforged.net/neoforged/neoforge)
-   [Forge](https://files.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/)

{: .warning }

> Not all `.jar` files are server jars. If the website states that is it an installer, or if the file name contains `installer`, proceed to the sub-section below:

### Installers:

Some server software such as Forge, NeoForge, and Quilt provide an installer rather than a direct download link. These installers must then be used to make the actual server jar and the library folders.

1. Once you have downloaded the installer, run it.

2. A prompt should appear, make sure you switch to the "Server" tab or choose "Install Server" from the list of options.

3. Choose the Minecraft and loader version if prompted.

    > If you are using a modpack, make sure the loader version matches the specifications of your modpack.

4. Create a new folder and select it as the target location.

5. Press "OK" or "Install" and let the installer generate the needed files.

#### Double Jar and a Library Folder

Some server software such as Quilt provide two server jars: a vanilla jar (usually named `server.jar`) and the modloader's own jar. Follow the steps below if this is the case:

1. Locate the vanilla jar, this is often called `server.jar` or `vanilla.jar`.

2. Rename it to `minecraft.jar`.

3. Find the main modloader's jar, this often contains the name of the modloader and `server-launch` or similar. Rename it to `server.jar`.

4. You will need to declare the vanilla jar's name to the modloader. In the case of Quilt, this can be done by creating a `quilt-server-launcher.properties` file with the following content:

```
serverJar=minecraft.jar
```

## Adding the Files to Your Server:

1. Log in to the [Dashboard](https://client.falixnodes.net/).

2. Choose a server within your server list.

3. You will be redirected to your server's [Console page](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/console). Ensure your server is offline by pressing the "**Stop**{: .red }" button at the top of the console.

4. In the navigation menu, open the "Console & Files" category and navigate to [File Manager](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/filemanager).

5. If you already have an installed server, locate the `server.jar` file and press the 3 dots to its right.

6. Press "**Delete**{: .red }" to delete your old server jar.

{% tabs addJar %}
{% tab addJar Standalone Server Jar %}

{:start="7"}

1. Press the "**Upload Files**{: .blue }" button and select your `.jar` file.

2. Make sure the uploaded file is named `server.jar`. If it is not, press the 3 dots to its right and select "Rename".

3. Navigate back to the [Console page](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/console) and start your server.

{% endtab %}
{% tab addJar Server Jar and Library %}

{:start="7"}

1. On your device, archive all of the files and folders generated by the installer (excluding `run.bat` and `run.sh`).

2. In the Dashboard, press the "**Upload Files**{: .blue }" button and select and upload the archive.

3. Once the archive has been uploaded, locate it and press the 3 dots to its right, then select "Unarchive".

4. Once done, you may delete the archive as it is no longer needed.

5. Make sure that the main `.jar` file is named `server.jar`. If not, press the 3 dots to its right and select "Rename".

6. Navigate back to the [Console page](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/console) and start your server.

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> Make sure to update your server's Java version to match the requirements of your Minecraft version. For more information, please visit our [Java versions guide](/minecraft/java/general/java-version).
