---
title: Build Your Own Minecraft OneBlock Server
tags: Software
permalink: minecraft/modifications/software/oneblock
description: Create your own OneBlock server, start on a single block, and expand your island while surviving with your friends!
keywords:
    - keyword: OneBlock
      matches: ["create", "own"]
author:
    - Twixhunter

icon: "https://cdn.modrinth.com/data/gMMDcC2d/369edc7ea70bc74e8fec7f02e86d57fbce126f6b.jpeg"
mod-name: OneBlock
mod-type: Plugin
mod-url: "https://modrinth.com/plugin/oneblock_bukkit"
---

### What is OneBlock?

OneBlock is a unique Minecraft game mode where you start on a single floating block in the sky. Each time you break the block, a new one is created in its place, offering different materials, chests, and even mobs. As you progress, you go through different stages, such as the Overworld, Nether, and End, each with new challenges and resources. The goal is to expand your island and collect resources. OneBlock offers a fun mix of survival, building, and adventure, making it a popular choice for both solo and multiplayer gameplay.


## Installation:

## Requirements:

- Make sure your server is running Spigot or one of its forks (Paper, Purpur, etc).

## Installation:

We already have a guide on how to install OneBlock as well as any other plugin in our [Adding Plugins](/minecraft/modifications/general/adding-plugins) guide.

### Creating your first island

1. start and join your server

2. Go to the location where you want your first OneBlock to be.

3. To enable circle generation, run `/ob circlemode true`, otherwise all new islands will spawn in a straight line.

4. Run `/ob set` to spawn the first OneBlock.

> Use `/ob set 150` if you want your islands to spawn farther or closer to each other than the 100 block default. where 150 is the desired distance.

## Configuring the plugin

1. Navigate to the [File Manager](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/filemanager) by hovering over "Manage" and then clicking on "File Manager".

2. Open the [Plugins](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/filemanager?dir=/plugins/) folder again.

3. Locate and open the [Oneblock](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/filemanager?dir=/plugins/oneblock/) configuration folder.

4. Locate and open "config.yml". This is the main configuration file where you will be able to customize any feature you need.
