---
title: Monitaze Your Server With Tebex
tags: Software
permalink: minecraft/modifications/software/tebex
description: Learn how to monitize your Minecraft server using a tebex webstore
keywords:
    - keyword: tebex
      matches: ["how", "setup"]
    - keyword: buycraft
      matches: ["how", "setup"]
author:
    - TWIXhunter
toc: true

icon: "https://cdn.modrinth.com/data/nRA0jiJt/2545c950169f850a12622b77fb5ea25815af4a91_96.webp"
mod-name: Tebex
mod-type: Plugin, Mod
mod-url: "https://modrinth.com/plugin/tebex"
---

Tebex (previously known as “buycraft”) allows you to sell items, ranks, crates and more to your players using an online webstore. Allowing you to finally be able to monitize your hosting dreams.

### Creating a project
1. Visit the official tebex site [here](https://affiliate.tebex.io/r/b5c232bc-964c-44a9-b9b3-d07b75302a72).

  {: .warning}
  > The link given above is a FalixNodes affiliate link, Do not worry, there won't be any extra charges made to your account.

2. Click the “log in” button in the top right and login or create a new tebex account.

3. Enter your name, preffered currency and select “I operate a game server”.

4. Accept the Eula and press continue.

5. Select Minecraft and press continue.

6. Select “java”, “bedrock” or “offline/geyser”.

  {: .warning}
   > selecting offline/geyser disables account verification, this means that tebex will not authenticate purchases and playernames.

  {: .info}
   > bedrock players on a geyser server have to add the floodgate prefix to their username (by default “.”).
7. Press “Confirm”.

### Adding the plugin/mod to your server
1. Open the “Continue setup” page.

2. Click on “Configure product delivery”.

3. Select “Installing the game plugin”.

4. Select a version.

5. Install the plugin or mod like explained here: [plugin](/minecraft/modifications/general/adding-plugins) [mod](/minecraft/modifications/general/adding-mods)

6. Enter the command given at step 3 into the console.

7. Run `/tebex` in-game to make sure that tebex is linked correctly.

8. Press “continue” on the tebex site.

### Setting up packages
More info about creating packages can be found [here](https://docs.tebex.io/creators/tebex-control-panel/how-to-create-packages).

1. Go back to the setup page by pressing “continue setup” in the sidebar.

2. Select “create a package”.

3. Enter a name, description and a category.

  {: .warning}
  > The description must be at least 25 characters long.

4. Upload an image.

5. Select an item that will be used in the game UI, you can enter custom blocks from mods by using their in-game ID (ex. “create:large_cogwheel”).

6. Enter a price and choose a transaction type (“once”, “subscription” or “both”).

7. Select a time limit (if desired).

8. Enter extra information like limits, visibility or goals if desired.

9. Select a server.

10. Add a command by clicking “game server command” and then “add command”.

11. Enter the desired command(s) for example:  “give {username} Minecraft:diamond” or “lp add xxxxx” (variables like “{username}” can be found under the “variables” drop-down).
  > More information about the commands can be found [here](https://docs.tebex.io/creators/command-management/an-introduction-to-commands).
  > If you give users roles or permissions then make sure to remove them when the subscription ends or when the item gets refunded, this can be done by adding a second command that runs when the package is removed, refunded or chargebacked
12. Select a time for example “when added” “when removed”.

Repeat the steps above if you want to create extra packages

### Setting up the webstore
More information about setting up your webstore can be found [here](https://docs.tebex.io/creators/tebex-control-panel/webstore).

1. Go back to the setup page by pressing “continue setup” in the sidebar.

2. Click “Provide a store description”.

3. Customise your webstore however you want.
  {: .warning}
   > Make sure to edit the about page by pressing “edit” in the custom pages box, not editing this page will cause issues later on.

4. Save your changes and go back to the setup page by pressing “continue setup” in the sidebar.

5. Click on “Confirm customer support contact”.

6. Confirm your email or add a public support email.

### payment details and verification
1. Go back to the setup page by pressing “continue setup” in the sidebar.

2. Click on “Set up wallet”.

3. Click again on “Setup my wallet”.

4. Log into the wallet and follow the steps provided on the site.

5. Go back to the setup page by pressing “continue setup” in the sidebar.

6. Click on “Complete ID verification”.

7. You will be asked to take a picture of your face, ID and/or driving license (depending on your region), follow the given instructions to verify your identity.

  {: .warning}
  > It might take a while for your identity to be verified, more information about the verification process can be found [here](https://docs.tebex.io/creators/initial-setup-guide/identity-verification-with-tebex).

### Verify and submit for review
1. Go back to the setup page by pressing “continue setup” in the sidebar.

2. Click on “View webstore”.

3. Browse your own webstore and make sure to test your packages, don’t worry, you won’t have to pay when purchasing in testing mode.

4. If you are confident with the results then you can press “submit for review” in the setup page.

5. Follow the instructions given on the site, More information about the review process and some handy tips can be found [here](https://docs.tebex.io/creators/initial-setup-guide/project-review-process).
