---
layout: post
title: Using Custom Server Software or Version
category: Java
tags: General
description: Find out how to use a custom or modified software or version not available in the versions list.
keywords:
    - keyword: custom
      matches: ["software", "jar", "core"]
permalink: /minecraft/java/general/custom-software
author: Mocab
---

Before proceeding with this guide, we recommend reading our [server software guide](/minecraft/java/general/server-software) to better understand the terms used below.

Often a user will want to use a specific version or software, either because of a modpack requirement or for specific features. Fortunately, this can be easily done with a custom jar. Custom jars come in two forms: a standalone `.jar` file, or a `.jar` file, a library folder and sometimes other files.

## :cook: Preparing the Jar or Library:

Standalone jars are often downloaded directly, while jar with a library folder are generated from an installer, both of which can be downloaded from the provider's website. A list of the most common software and their download website is as follows:

{: .warning }

> **NEVER** download shady or untrusted server software, or software from unofficial websites. Malicious developers can use them to easily gain backdoor access to your server and reck havoc.

-   [Paper, Folia, Velocity, Waterfall](https://papermc.io/downloads)
-   [Purpur](https://purpurmc.org/downloads)
-   [Spigot](https://getbukkit.org/download/spigot/)
-   [Fabric](https://fabricmc.net/use/server/)
-   [Quilt](https://quiltmc.org/en/install/server/)
-   [NeoForge](https://projects.neoforged.net/neoforged/neoforge)
-   [Forge](https://files.minecraftforge.net/net/minecraftforge/forge/)

{: .warning }

> Not all `.jar` files are server jars. If the website states that is it an installer, or if the file name contains `installer`, proceed to the sub-section below:

### Installers:

Some server software such as Forge, NeoForge and Quilt provide an installer rather than a direct download link. These installers must then be used to generate the actual server jars and the library folders.

1. Once you have downloaded the installer, double click to run it.

2. A prompt should appear, ensure you switch to the "Server" tab or choose "Install Server" from the list of options.

3. Choose the Minecraft and loader version if prompted.

    > If you are using a modpack, ensure the loader version matches the specifications of your modpack.

4. Create a new folder and select it as the target location.

5. Click on "OK" or "Install" and let the installer generate the needed files.

#### Double Jar and a Library Folder

Some software such as Quilt provide two server jars: a vanilla jar (usually named `server.jar`) and the modloader's own jar. Follow the steps below if this is the case:

1. Locate the vanilla jar, this is often called `server.jar` or `vanilla.jar`.

2. If not already, rename it to `minecraft.jar`.

3. Find the main modloader's jar, this often contains the name of the modloader and `server-launch` or similar. Rename it to `server.jar`.

4. You will need to declare the vanilla jar's name to the modloader. In the case of Quilt, this can be done by creating a `quilt-server-launcher.properties` file with the following content:

```
serverJar=minecraft.jar
```

## :hammer: Adding the Files to Your Server:

1. Log in to the [Dashboard](https://client.falixnodes.net/).

2. Choose a server within your server list.

3. You will be redirected to your server's [Console page](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/console). Ensure your server is offline by click on the "**Stop**{: .red }" button at the top of the console.

4. In the top navigation bar, hover over "Manage" then navigate to the [File Manager](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/filemanager).

5. Locate the `server.jar` file and click on the 3 dots to its right.

6. Click on "**Delete**{: .red }" to delete your old server jar.

### Standalone Server Jar:

{:start="7"}

7. Click on the "**Upload Files**{: .blue }" button and select the downloaded or generated `.jar` file.

8. Ensure the uploaded file is named `server.jar`. If it is not, click on the 3 dots to its right and click on "Rename".

9. Navigate back to the [Console page](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/console) and start your server.

### Server Jar and a Library:

{:start="7"}

7. On your device, archive all of the files and folders generated by the installer (excluding `run.bat` and `run.sh`) in the `.zip` format.

8. Back in the Dashboard, click on the "**Upload Files**{: .blue }" button and select and upload the archive.

9. Once the archive has been uploaded, locate it and click on the 3 dots to its right, then click on "Unarchive".

10. Once it is done, you may delete the `.zip` archive as it is no longer needed.

11. Ensure that the main `.jar` file is named `server.jar`. If it is not, click on the 3 dots to its right and click on "Rename".

12. Navigate back to the [Console page](https://client.falixnodes.net/server/console) and start your server.
