---
title: Deleting Unused Chunks On Your Minecraft Java World
tags: Worlds
permalink: /minecraft/java/worlds/mcaselector
description: A guide on saving disk space by deleting unused chunks using MCA Selector.
keywords:
    - keyword: mcaselector
      matches: ["how", "use"]
    - keyword: disk
      matches: ["full"]
    - keyword: chunks
      matches: ["delete", "remove", "unused", "prune"]
author:
    - TWIXhunter
    - Deka
    - Kuroi
---

## What is MCA Selector?

[MCA Selector](https://github.com/Querz/mcaselector) is an external tool to export or delete selected chunks and regions from a world save of Minecraft Java Edition.

It can help with deleting chunks that have been loaded for a very little amount of time. These chunks are usually generated by travelling players and are unmodified, and they can take up a lot of disk space without being actively used by players.

Deleting these chunks can:

- Significantly reduce your world size
- If done correctly, also preserve all important and actively used areas

### Downloading Your World:

1. Download your world folder by following our [World Management](/minecraft/java/general/world-management#downloading-your-world) guide.

2. Extract your world from the archive file.

### Downloading and Installing MCA Selector:

1. Go to the GitHub [releases](https://github.com/Querz/mcaselector/releases) page of MCA Selector.

2. Scroll down to the Assets section.

3. If you are on Windows, download the `MCA_Selector_Setup.exe` file. Otherwise, download the `mcaselector-VERSION.jar` file.

4. Run the file to complete installation.

{: .warning }
> Windows may flag the file as "untrusted" because it isn't digitally signed by a verified developer.
> To continue, click "More info" and then select "Run anyway".

### Editing Your World:

1. In the action bar, open "File" and select "Open world".

2. Pick the world you would like to edit.

3. Open "Tools" and select "Filter chunks".

4. Change the default `InhabitedTime` parameter to "1 minute".

    {: .warning}
    > Setting this over 1 minute can be destructive for a small gain in disk space and should only be selected if you know what you are doing.

5. Press "OK" and wait for the selection to complete.

6. Verify that you haven't selected any important chunks.

7. If needed, you can select or deselect chunks manually. You might need to zoom in to edit individual chunks.

    | Keybind      | Description    |
    |--------------|----------------|
    | Arrows/WASD  | Move camera    |
    | Right-Click  | Deselect chunk |
    | Left-Click   | Select chunk   |
    | Scroll       | Zoom in/out    |

8. In the action bar, open "Selection" and select "Delete selected chunks".

### Uploading Your World:

Upload your world folder by following our [World Management](/minecraft/java/general/world-management#uploading-your-world) guide.

{: .warning }
> Make sure you empty the recycle bin after deleting the old world to regain used disk space.
