---
layout: post
title: Installing and configuring Dynmap
category: Modifications
tags:
    - Plugins
    - Mods
permalink: minecraft/modifications/plugins/dynmap
description: Getting started with Dynmap.
author: Naoki & Deka
toc: true
---

# Explaining Dynmap
---


## What is Dynmap?

Dynmap is a plugin that allows you to see a live map of all your worlds, players and chat in your browser. It is easy to setup and use as it only requires a few steps and it works out of the box. Dynmap can render your worlds using different renderers, some more suitable for performance and some for higher detail.


## Prerequisites

- Your server must have an extra port.

{: .info}
> Please refer to [this](/falix/dashboard/server/extra-port) on how to create an extra port for your server.


# Installation
---

## Installing on Forge/Fabric

1. Download the mod from [modrinth.com](https://modrinth.com/plugin/dynmap/versions).

2. On Falix, go to `Manage` > `File Manager` and upload the downloaded .jar file into the `mods` folder.

3. Start/restart your server.


## Installing on Paper

1. Download the plugin from [modrinth.com](https://modrinth.com/plugin/dynmap/versions).

2. On Falix, go to `Manage` > `File Manager` and upload the downloaded .jar file into the `plugins` folder.

3. Start/restart your server.


# Configuration
---

## Forge/Fabric Configuration

1. Go to `Manage` > `File Manager` and open the `plugins` > `dynmap` folder.

2. Open `configuration.txt` and change the following values:

    | Key            | Default | Change To               |
    | -------------- | ------- | ----------------------- |
    | webserver-port | `8192`  | `<your extra port>`     |


---
## Paper/Purpur Configuration

1. Go to `Manage` > `File Manager` and open the `dynmap` folder.

2. Open `configuration.txt` and change the following values:

    | Key            | Default | Change To               |
    | -------------- | ------- | ----------------------- |
    | webserver-port | `8192`  | `<your extra port>`     |

{: .info}
> Make sure to restart the server after changing the `webserver-port` value to apply the changes.