---
layout: post
title: Installing GeyserMC
category: Modifications
tags:
    - Plugins
    - Mods
permalink: minecraft/modifications/plugins/geysermc
description: Setting up and configuring GeyserMC.
author: Naoki & Deka
toc: true
---

# Explaining GeyserMC
---

## What is GeyserMC?

GeyserMC is a software that allows Minecraft: Bedrock Edition clients to join Minecraft: Java Edition servers, allowing for seamless cross-platform play between both editions of the game.


## How does it work?

GeyserMC translates data between the Bedrock client and the Java server. It converts packet data to a format Java understands, and vice versa. GeyserMC supports all modern Minecraft versions, and can be used as a plugin, a mod, or a standalone program.


## Prerequisites

- Make sure your server runs the latest version of Minecraft.
- Players joining with Minecraft: Bedrock Edition must be using a supported version.


# Installation
---

## Installing GeyserMC

### Paper/Purpur

1. Create a server and choose `Minecraft Java/Bedrock`, and when prompted to install a version, select `Paper`, choose the version and click `Install`.

2. Start the server and wait until it finishes loading, then stop the server.

3. Download GeyserMC from [geysermc.org](https://geysermc.org/download) and select the `Paper/Spigot` option.

4. On Falix, go to `Manage` > `File Manager` and upload the downloaded .jar file into the `plugins` folder and start the server.


### Fabric

1. Create a server and choose `Minecraft Java/Bedrock`, and when prompted to install a version, select `Fabric`, choose the version and click `Install`.

2. Start the server and wait until it finishes loading, then stop the server.

3. Download GeyserMC from [geysermc.org](https://geysermc.org/download) and select the `Fabric` option.

4. On Falix, go to `Manage` > `File Manager` and upload the downloaded .jar file into the `mods` folder and start the server.


### Standalone

1. Create a server, select the option `All other games`.

2. Download GeyserMC from [geysermc.org](https://geysermc.org/download) and select the `Standalone` option.

3. Rename the downloaded .jar file to "server.jar".

4. On Falix, go to `Manage` > `File Manager` and upload the server.jar file.

{: .info}
> Please refer to [this](/falix/dashboard/server/create-server) on how to create a server.


## Configuring GeyserMC

Once you complete the above steps, you should have GeyserMC installed and ready to configure it. You can check the [GeyserMC wiki for config options](https://wiki.geysermc.org/geyser/understanding-the-config).

---
### Plugin Configuration

1. Go to `Manage` > `File Manager`, and open the `plugins` > `Geyser-Spigot` folder.

2. Open the config.yml file in the folder.

3. You should keep and `port` on the `bedrock` section as they are. Here are the options you should change:

  | Option              | Default  | Change To                      |
  | ------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------ |
  | `clone-remote-port` | `false`  | `true`                         |
  | `auth-type`         | `online` | `online`/`offline`/`floodgate` |

----
### Fabric Configuration

1. Go to `Manage` > `File Manager`, and open the `config` > `Geyser-Fabric` folder.

2. Open the config.yml file in the folder.

3. You should keep and `port` on the `bedrock` section as they are. Here are the options you should change:

  | Option              | Default  | Change To                      |
  | ------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------ |
  | `clone-remote-port` | `false`  | `true`                         |
  | `auth-type`         | `online` | `online`/`offline`/`floodgate` |

----
### Standalone Configuration

1. Go to `Manage` > `File Manager`.

2. Open the config.yml file.

3. Here are the options you should change:

  | Option              | Default  | Change To                                    |
  | ------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------- |
  | `address`           | `auto`   | `auto`/`<ip address>`/`<hostname>`           |
  | `port`              | `25565`  | `<target port>`                              |
  | `auth-type`         | `online` | `online`/`offline`/`floodgate`               |

---
{: .info}
> After changing the configuration file, save it and restart the server if it is running.

{: .info}
> Note that the `auth-type` option depends on what you wish to use. Only use `floodgate` if you have Floodgate installed on the target server. Please refer to GeyserMC's [GeyserMC wiki for config options](https://wiki.geysermc.org/geyser/understanding-the-config) for more information.
