---
layout: post
title: "How To Add 2FA to your FalixNodes Account"
category: Account
tags: General
permalink: falix/account/general/add-2fa
description: "Learn how to protect your account with 2 Factor Authentication."
keywords:
    - keyword: 2fa
      matches: ["add"]
author: Metr
---

## Introduction

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) adds an extra layer of security to your FalixNodes account by requiring not only your password/external accounts (like Google and Discord) but also a second form of verification. This guide will walk you through the steps to enable 2FA on your account.

## Why Use 2FA?

2FA significantly enhances the security of your account by making it much harder for unauthorized users to gain access. Even if someone manages to obtain your password, they would still need the second factor to log in.

## Steps to Enable 2FA

1. Navigate to the [Profile Settings page](https://client.falixnodes.net/profile/settings).
2. Scroll down until you will see a bunch of profile options.
3. On the right side of the page, click "Activate 2FA".
{: .info}

> You will be shown a QR code and a normal code. Some authentication services don't support QR code scanning so you will have to use the code given to you.

Here are 3 most popular authenticator apps:

{% tabs Authenticators %}
{& tab Authenticators Google Authenticator}

1. Click the plus icon on the right bottom corner.
2. Select either to scan a QR code or to enter a code.

- QR Code: Just scan the QR code and you are ready to go!
- Code: First enter the name of the code. It will be shown in the list with that name. Then, enter the code and then select the type of the key. You are ready to go!

{% endtab %}
{% tab Authenticators Microsoft Authenticator}

1. Click the QR code icon on the right bottom corner.
2. You will be prompted to scan the code directly. You may choose to enter a code by pressing the "Enter code manually" button below.

- QR code: Just scan the QR code and you are ready to go!
- Code: Select what type of account you want to use (work/school account or other accounts). Then enter the account's name and the code. You're ready to go!

{% endtab %}
{% tab Authenticators Ente Auth}

- Desktop: Click the plus icon on the right bottom corner. Enter the Issuer (the website or the business), Secret (the code) and Account Name. you may enter Notes or add Tags if you would like.
- Mobile: Click the plus icon on the right bottom corner. If you scan a QR code, Ente Auth will fill the appropiate information if applicable. If you enter a code, you will have to enter the information manually. It's the same as Desktop; the Issuer (the website or the business), Secret (the code) and Account Name. you may enter Notes or add Tags if you would like.

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{: .warning}

> Please make sure to keep your codes on somewhere safe. Anybody will be able to enter your account, no matter what, with these codes (and to whatever they want).
